---
layout: post
tagline: ""
title: Blah!
tags:
- livejournal
- poem
- silly story
---

Thinking about apples all day
singing about oranges
nobody knows what the day has in store.

I've been walking down the road
munchin on fruit
a laika fruit
a laika fruit
and nobody knows what the day has in store.

Cars keep passin'
honkin and screamin'
it seems they want me
to climb aboard
and nobody knows what the day has in store.

I'm riding down the road
in a big ole truck
Chinese man talkin' to me
something about
I don't know
cornfields
and nobody knows what the day has in store.

Fifty miles to go
before my journey is over
and then tomorrow
I'll walk twenty miles more
and nobody knows what the day has in store.

Nope, don't nobody know what the day has in store.

_______________________

On top of a donkey,
all covered in fur
I sank this while swimming
in the ocean before
The donkey was braying
and screaming out loud
I drew a pet robot
it was really mad.

_______________________

Pigs
on ice
swimming all around in paradise
Pigs
on ice
I'm gonna cook em up and eat em
that's pair-pair-paradise!

___________

I'm having bad dreams
gotta write them down
get them out of my head
get them somewhere else instead
somewhere other
than in my head.

____________

I like bannana sauce
it tastes really good
all over my tongue
that yummy bannana sauce.
Yummy, yummy, yummy
bannana sauce.
__________________

Not sure what to say
not sure what to write
just mumblin'
tumblin'
about giant gnats
who fly through the air
who fly through the night
saving innocent damsels
I wanna be a giant gnat.

__________________

Gnat gnat gnat
gnat gnat gnat
gnat of darkness!
Gnat gnat gnat
gnat gnat gnat
gnat of darkness!
GNAT OF DARKNESS!
______________

Giant dingos
howling on the outback
screaming and yapping
I'm gonna get my gun
gonna get my gun
I hate them damn dingos
I hate their guts
they stole her baby
and they gonna pay.
Dingos dingos
now you're gonna pay!

_________

I'm sick
and tired
of all this crap
that we've got in our heads
I'm sick
and tired
of all this crap
I want it out of my head tonight.

________________
