---
    layout: post
    category: Personal 
    tagline: "One of the ten best horror movies ever made"
    title: Signs
    tags: [horror movies, great movies, great movies everyone else thinks are
    bad movies]
    image: /assets/images/signs.jpg
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Liswamírë and I stayed up late last night watching movies and drinking wine. One of the movies we watched was M. Night Shyamalan's "Signs." 

I realize that I stand (almost) alone on this, but ever since it came out, I've felt that Signs was among the best horror movies ever made. Watching it again last night, I still feel that way. It easily makes my top ten. 

<!-- more -->

{% include figure.html src="/assets/images/signs.jpg" caption=""  %}

It is one of only a dozen or so movies that I have seen more than ten times. In
fact, I think I have seen Signs somewhere around twenty times. It, along with
House of the Devil, are my go to horror movies. The horror movies I keep coming
back to in my life, over and over again, and enjoy them each time almost as much
as the first time I saw them. 

Before we move forward, let's address the elephant in the room: M. Night
Shyamalan. Shyamalan is, as much as I hate to say it, justly panned now. It's
not just that his last three or four movies have been horrible. No one would
notice that. It is that his last three or four movies have been horrible, while
his first five movies were all incredible. In 2002, when Signs came out,
Shyamalan was fresh off of Sixth Sense and Unbreakable. When Signs came out,
Shyamalan was king of the world. Following Signs, he released The Village, Lady
in the Water, and The Happening, all of them not very good movies. I think
people have since projected backwards, recasting everything the man has made in
light of those late films. 

It's better to see Shyamalan going through three phases. In his early years, he
is on fire. Everything he does is gold. This period ends with Signs. In his
middle years, he is checking off all the right boxes to continue his success of
the early years, but the audience feels like he is phoning it in, checking off
boxes on the Shyamalan formula. This runs from Lady in the Water through to the
Happening. In the later phase, Shyamalan doesn't trust himself. From his point
of view, he has been doing the same thing he has always done, but almost like
a light-switch has been flipped, he goes from Hollywood's hottest young
director to an object of mockery. He loses faith in his ability to create great
movies from scratch, and he begins to make movies that are completely 
out-of-character for himself. This begins with Airbender, and continues from
there. 


Some people would put Signs in that middle listing, Shyamalan at the start of his decay. 
This is wrong, simply because Signs is a good horror movie. I still, over ten
years and twenty or so viewings later, get goose-bumps when I am supposed to get
goose-bumps. 




