---
published: false
---
## Finances

An old friend of the family sent me DM asking for broad financial advice based on a few Facebook posts, and it turned into a very long thing. So, I thought I'd drop it here, in descending priority order. At the top is stuff I think is pretty cut and dried and obvious (but hard to do.) As you get towards the middle, you are reaching things that work for me, but that might not work well for people not in my circumstances. At the very bottom are some things that work for me, but probably only work for me because I'm just a weirdo. 

First a disclaimer, I'm basically assuming you are middle class here. I don't know first hand what problems are faced by the top 1%. I do know first hand what problems are faced by the bottom 20%, but I don't really have anything to say about that life.

So this whole thing assumes you have an income somewhere between $25k (approx 20th percentile) and $400k (approx the 99th percentile).  Higher or lower than that, and I don't really know your world.

### Obvious and for everyone

1. Cancel your credit cards

This ones obvious. 15,20,25% interest is not a good deal, and all those points and rewards are just bait. You are not superhuman, you are the same as everyone else, and the same tricks work on you. They work on me, too. So, just cancel them.  

Want to keep one, because the rewards are just so great? Fine, keep one, but call them and tell them "Reduce my credit limit to XXX", where XXX is an amount you could pay off with the disposable income of one paycheck. For me, that's around $500. So I have 1 credit card with a $500 credit limit, so that I can get the Amazon rewards. They gave me a $10k limit, after running up that balance twice in my lifetime, I called them and said "No, $500." Every now and then they send me a happy, congratulations letters increasing it to $5k, and I call them and say "No, $500."   

BTW: My wife and I make pretty good money. If your answer for a credit limit is more than $1k, you had better be a brain surgeon married to a lawyer. 

2. Save a set amount of each check in a savings account

Pick a number, setup your bank to auto deduct it. In a few months, go increase that number by 5%. Do that until forever or you die.

3. Roth is better than a normal 401k

If your work offers a Roth option, use Roth. Roth is better unless you are very close to retirement. There is no tax situation where "grow tax free" works worse than "no taxes now." Also, if you need to withdraw early, the penalities on a Roth are lower. 

If your work doesn't offer a Roth, do what you can to meet the match, and put everything else in a Roth. 

Whatever you are saving for retirement, same as 2, go in every few months and increase it slightly until you are at 15%. 

### Your Mileage May Vary

4. Use an Escrow Account

I have two checking accounts (plus my savings) and a spreadsheet. One account is called "Pocket Money" and the other is called "Escrow." 

On the spreadsheet I have added together every foreseen expense for the next year, such as:

* Mortgage
* Christmas and birthday presents
* Car insurance
* Annual train pass
* Car registration
* The total I paid for all my utilities all year last year
* Phone bill
* Prescription drug costs
* Car payment

I take that number, divide by my number of paychecks each year, and setup an auto transfer rule at my bank that moves that amount into Escrow every paycheck. 

That leaves pocket money as, well, pocket money. I already saved (see 2), I set aside money for every bill I know about (that's 4), so whatever is left is for whatever makes sense. Pocket money is for: 

* Food
* Entertainment
* Clothes
* Gasoline
* Whatever else we feel like spending money on

In other words, every budget I ever had broke down because it was hard to predict things like clothes or food or entertainment. So I take everything predictable, make sure I have *that* coverered, and play the rest by ear. 

But take note, this *doesn't work if you kept those credit cards!*

5. Minimize your payments and Never pay the minimum

I make more money than anyone else I know except my doctor cousin and a few higher ups at work. I also live in the cheapest house of anyone I know and I drive a used paid for car. I could almost afford to pay my set minimum bills on minimum wage. 

Taking on a big mortgage, or a big car payment, or a 12 month good-as-cash financing deal is prespending all your money before you have it. Every payment is a straight jacket you put on your future self, and here's the thing: 

There are two future yous. One is having good luck, the other is having bad luck. The one with good luck doesn't need your help, and the one having bad luck does not appreciate being put in a straight jacket by younger, rosey, optimistic you. 

Because I have a cheap house, because I drive a used car, I pay extra on my mortgage every month. I save almost half my monthly income every month (either in retirement or in savings accounts.) I eat out a lot (probably more than I should, but that's true of most of us I think.) I'm not worried about what happens if I lose my job because of the coronavirus.  

Here's the lesson: having disposable income, having a funded savings account, having a growing net worth, is *way* less stressful and *way* more fun than having those extra 600 square feet in your house, or having upper middle class neighbors, or having a late model car. 

You might be thinking "But you said it yourself, you make good money, but you aren't scared. You aren't scared because you make good money." You have a point, but at the same time, I said at the top of this, I don't really have advice for people living on $15k or 20k. And if you make more than that $20k, there are people poorer than you. You could be one of those people. If you were one of those people, you would have to get by on their income. 

You are not special. You could become one of those people making $15k tomorrow. If you did, your tomorrow self will be greatful if you lived a little more like that person today, and gave him a little money in a savings account to ease the transition. 

I don't know what that looks like for you. For us, it looks like living a $50k/year lifestyle while making $160k/year. For you, it might be living a $40k/year lifestyle on a $50k/year income. Or just a living a $29k/year lifestyle on a $30k/year income. 

Here's the thing I learned being outside of America for 6 years. America is an awesome place, but we have one very bad trait: we are really, really, really good at making everybody feel like the bare minimum to which everyone is entitled is about 10% more than they can afford. And then giving them financing at interest to fill the gap. And that is a recipe for misery. 

You are better off with no TV, sitting in your house reading a book with $1,000 in a savings account, than having a TV and being wretched because you don't know how to pay the next electric bill. By better off, I mean happier, right then, in that moment. 

Bored beats scared for your family every day of the week, and bored doesn't charge interest. 


### Probably Just Because I'm a Nerd

6. Track your net worth...and a few other things

Okay, this is probably just because sitting down with my spreadsheet once a month is fun for me, but it helps me alot. I keep a suite of about half a dozen "financial health" metrics, and I don't think I'm doing well unless all of them are better than the previous month. They are:

* Net worth
* Net worth ignoring house appreciation
* Downside net worth
* Liquid Assets
* Highly Liquid Assets
* Debt to Assets Ratio

The first two are obvious. 

"Downside networth" is "all your debts stay the same, but all investments (including your home) lose 50% of their value."   This is the "net worth bullshit detector." If net worth goes up, but this goes down, that means "You got excited about unrealized gains in a risky asset and took out debt because you thought you actually had more money." If this number is negative (mine was when I first started calculating it) then the only difference between you and a person in bankruptcy court is one very unlucky day. 







Enter text in [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). Use the toolbar above, or click the **?** button for formatting help.
